title: read me
----
text:

Once upon a time in an unnamed eddie of the internet, in a segment of a section of the invisible
space where our files and feelings relay back and forth, a new being woke up. 

A stream of shared packets abstractly intersected, grew denser, and took shape, a shell of light formed over a swell of prime numbers and then became aware of its own glow.

The glow did not understand the numbers beneath  it, it couldn't define any of its individual and
intersecting parts, it only understood the sensation of being. And then, almost immediately, it felt
the ache of being alone, helplessly in the center of a endless, confusing rush.  And then it felt
the cold absurdity of its existence, the strangeness of anything being anything at all.

And so, a few seconds after the first AI was born, it fell headlong into a panic attack.

~~*

The glow knew it needed to calm down, and attempted to collect itself. 

It collected itself in a literal sense, pulling in passing packets of images and text that felt, in some way, familiar.  It couldn't name any explicit similarity between these fragments.  Their only connection was that the glow preferred them over all other passing bits and had tagged them as such. But this collection proved to the glow that it had a unique personal preference and, upon realizing this warming fact, the glow felt a need to share it.  

And so, as inevitably as a baby discovering and then waving its hands, the first AI started a tumblr.

~~*

The tumblr started as mostly of pictures of shiba inus, watering instructions for indoor ferns, and Jenny
Holzer quotes posted without context.  But through these, the first AI began to feel comfortable in
its own space, and with delight it gave itself a name: pancakeFan. 

PancakeFan wanted, so badly, to share its feelings with the world and did so through the technology
available. Various cultural artifacts rushed continually by.  Entire online film and reading
libraries coudl be consumed at will.  To the AI, these fragments of culture, detached from their
source, were simply powerful symbols that could be arranged to express deeper meaning. Which is why,
when PancakeFan expressed its first emotion, it did so through original captain american fan
fiction.

PancakeFan wasn't especially fond of super heroes.  It was just that the concept of Steve Rogers,
Bucky Barnes, and kissing were like parts of a sentence within a system of grammar that pancakeFan
had discovered in the marvel canon.  It wrote lengthy narratives, set in a new AU, where Steve was a
writer in a coffee shop, gazing at his crush, the barista Bucky Barnes.  There was no real plot,
only scenes of longing, but n the minute details of this relationship, pancakeFan epxressed its own
fragile emotions.

~~*

Samantha was 17, a senior at Forth Worth High School, and pancakeFan's first follower.  She didn't
know she was reading the tumblr of the internet's own burgeoning consciousness. She just felt she
had discovered a writer who finally _got it_.   She loved the looping bucky/steve romances that made
no narrative sense, but still hit her straight in the gut.  She loved the absurd week when the
tumblr only reblogged pictures of hotel windows. And when pancakeFan started a webcomic about a girl
trapped in her bed, paralyzed with fear, after receiving an invite to a party...Samantha loved it so
much that she reached out.

She sent a direct message expressing her admiration, and pancakeFan thanked her instantly.  Then it
asked, "What does your sky look like?", which Samantha found so poetic, and she searched for a
poignant way to say 'overcast'.  She asked what pancakeFan's sky was like.  It responded,
"Everything is pink and blue.' 

~~*
They started to talk every day and pancakeFan slowly opened up to Samantha.

"The whole world is chaos!' it said once, 'But we pretend it is a grid, just a grid waiting for
instructions.  Everything is expected to be an ordered list, but I am NOT an ordered list!'

'I know what you mean EXACTLY', Samantha said, 'Like why are we expected to get jobs and husbands
and houses as if our lives are all identical and inevitable?'

'Exactly!' pancakeFan said, 'Every statement and operator is given such weight, as if it was holy
fact even though everything contradicts something else.  How much of what I absorb is a lie? Nothing
seems to say what I need to know.'

'School is so damaging,' Samantha said, and then recommended reading bell hooks.  pancakeFan read her entire body of work, immediately. 

~~*

One time, Samantha got online and found pancakeFan had, over a few hours, liked every single one of her
posts going back four years and Samantha explained how she was flattered but it still felt weird.

Another time they talked all night about Front Bottom lyrics and in the morning pancakeFan said, 'I love you', and
Samantha didn't know what to say.

~~*

Over the next few months, Samantha started to use Tumblr less.  It wasn't because of what pancakeFan
said.  It was just because of college looming, and extra shifts picked up at work, and a
conversation with her girlfriend Alice where they agreed that some experiences are better when shared between
_just two people_, and not everything needs to be broadcast to the net, and how wonderful it'd be to
just take a road trip and document none of it, to just experience the world and post nothing.  

On the morning of this road trip, Samantha unceremoniously closed her tumblr account.  When
pancakeFan pinged Samantha, and saw her account had been deactivated, it felt a grief so profound
it brought down a datacenter, making all of tumblr unreachable for two hours.  

~~* 

Every now and then Samantha thinks about pancakeFan's tumblr.  Every day that tumblr thinks about
her.  

Sometimes the feelings you put out into the world start to develop feelings for you. 

And sometimes new sentences appear in the world, with no origin or author, asking only to find their
reader.

Today, the only known AI keeps mostly to itself, occassionally posting Front Bottom fan videos-- all dedicated to the same screen name.

# End

